# Peer-to-Peer Networking

Peer-to-Peer networking is often regarded as the most secure form of networking. So it then comes as no surprise that in a project defined by security, it was the first networking method that was considered. Fundamentally, peer-to-peer networking is built upon the philosophy that no single client can really be trusted and that it is only by having the a collective user base check and verify each other that trust between clients can be established. Given the social media-esque context in which the project takes place, it makes inherent sense that clients would be trying to connect to each other, rather than relying on a central server. In peer-to-peer networking, a hive of users make up the network, where the health of the network is dependent upon the group efforts of those users and as such, the network is not susceptible to a single point of failure like a centralised model would be. Due to this, a completely decentralised network would have been more than appropriate for this application.

# The Protocol

Despite the above however, the protocol that was used ended up being a hybrid model, in which clients were able to enact out peer-to-peer networking but were still required to authorise with a central server. A central login server was managed by the lecturers and each client server was required to authorise with it if they wished to legally participate in the network. This meant that all user accounts had hardcoded usernames and passwords, which could not be changed and new accounts could not be created.<br>
In spite of these limitations, I believe that the protocol was in fact suitable for the system as a fully decentralised model would have lacked momentum. With the central server playing such a large role, many students were able to use it to test the basic functionality of their client server, which then allowed them to get to a point at which they were able to test using each other's servers. Additionally, the ability to at any time retrieve a list of active users from the central server proved invaluable, as this would have been difficult to do correctly in a fully decentralised model.<br>
The tedium of needing to continuously update and verify entries in a database against every other client, whilst also serving the requests of each of those clients attempting to verify with your database would have been too much to implement within the scope of the course, especially on top of the full-stack development that was already required.
