# General Discussion
### The Development and Game Design Experience
Suffice to say, there were many late nights and a large amount of caffeine involved. Nothing describes the experience of game development more accurately, whether its in a hobbyist context, an academic context or in the context of a professional games studio. 
However, to be more precise, there were a lot of elements of a video game that needed to be considered during this project. Specifically, we needed to consider the perspective of the player; how they would experience our game versus how we wanted them to experience our game. It is very important to try and minimise the difference between the two, as we want the player to have the best experience possible, which is one that we would craft for them.

### Future Development
Although it should be a given with any project, it is always worth mentioning that no code of a large enough size is perfect and all code could benefit from thorough refactoring. This should be the first port of call for future developers picking up this project, not only because it will likely make their lives easier in the long term but also allow them to familiarise themselves with the code base. 
In terms of additional features the future developers could implement, there are many elements that would make for good additions to the game if implemented and these have been listed below.
##### Enhanced Visuals of Levels
While every aspect of the game has potential to be given a visual upgrade, one area in particular could benefit quite highly and that is the layout of each individual level. Despite the tileset being used having a reasonable selection of tiles, only 2 were actually used in the makeup of each room: a blank tile and a wall tile. Future developers might consider utilising the extra tiles to make the rooms look a little nicer.
##### Puzzle Room
To a lesser or greater extent, every room that is generated is much the same. It contains some items to pickup and some enemies to defeat. This can get repetitive. One of the features that we considered earlier in development but didn't get the chance to implement was a puzzle room - a room that deviated from simply items and enemies, instead presenting the player with a small challenge to solve. This could greatly add to the enjoyment and replay value of the game if a future developer were to implement it properly.
##### More Enemy Types
There are only 2 enemies present in *Energize*, which are the Grunt and the Boss. The combat would benefit greatly from the variety that additional enemy types would bring. A suggestion to future developers is to consider adding a ranged character to the mix.